509 More Cases Discharged, 218 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



509 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 218 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 09 Jun 2020

1.     As of 9 June 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 218 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

a.  IMPORTED CASES: 0

    There are no imported cases today.

b.  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 6 (4 Work Pass holders, 2 Work Permit
    holders)

    There are no Singaporean/ Permanent Resident cases today. Amongst
    the 6 Work Pass/ Work Permit holders, 3 (Cases 38520, 38521 and
    38522) are housemates of a previously confirmed case, and had
    already been quarantined in government quarantine facilities
    earlier. They are asymptomatic, but we had swabbed them to verify
    their status during quarantine.

    The other 3 cases (Cases 38516, 38547 and 38548) are also
    asymptomatic and had been picked up as a result of our proactive
    screening of workers in essential services, including the
    construction and marine sectors.

    Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased,
    from an average of 4 cases per day in the week before, to an average
    of 9 per day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the
    community has also increased, from an average of 2 cases per day in
    the week before, to an average of 4 per day in the past week. This
    is partly due to our active surveillance and screening of targeted
    groups, which have picked up more cases in the past week [1]. We
    will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
    detected through our surveillance programme.

c.  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 212

We continue to pick up cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in
dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.

2.     Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.     Of the new cases, 97% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.

4.     MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the
construction site at Tanah Merah Coast Road and the dormitory at 17C
Tuas Road for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the
clusters have now been closed.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

5.     In the past week (2 June to 8 June), MOH has uncovered links for
5 previously unlinked cases.

6.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.     509 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 25,877 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

8.     There are currently 248 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 3 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 12,364 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 25 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
9 JUNE 2020

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] These include surveillance testing of workers in essential services,
staff in preschools, and school staff and students above the age of 12
who are diagnosed with acute respiratory infection (ARI) at first
presentation to a doctor, as well as those with prolonged ARI symptoms.
