425 More Cases Discharged, 876 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



425 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 876 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 10 May 2020

1.     As of 10 May 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 876 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

a.  IMPORTED CASES: 1

    There is 1 imported case today who had been placed on Stay-Home
    Notice upon arrival in Singapore.

b.  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 4 (2 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents, 2
    Work Passes)

    The number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an
    average of 11 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 9
    per day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the
    community has also decreased, from an average of 5 cases per day in
    the week before, to an average of 4 per day in the past week. We
    will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
    detected through our surveillance programme.

c.  WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING OUTSIDE DORMITORIES): 11

    The number of new cases amongst Work Permit holders residing outside
    dormitories has decreased, from an average of 9 cases per day in the
    week before, to an average of 8 per day in the past week.

d.  WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING IN DORMITORIES): 860

The number of new cases from the testing of workers with acute
respiratory infection (ARI) symptoms and their contacts remains stable.
But the number of daily cases continues to rise as we are also testing
the workers who are well and asymptomatic, as part of our process to
verify and test the status of every worker. We had started this
intensive testing at the purpose-built dormitories, and are now doing so
for the factory-converted dormitories.

2.     Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.     Of the new cases, 98% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.

4.     MOH regularly reviews the laboratory tests and recently found
that 33 cases[1] from a laboratory were false positives, due to an
apparatus calibration issue for one of its test kits. Subsequent
retesting at the National Public Health Laboratory confirmed that these
were negative cases. There were no false negative results discovered
from our review. MOH has taken immediate actions to rectify the
situation. The laboratory has stopped all tests and is working to
resolve the calibration issue.

5.     In addition, there were two results[2] that had been equivocal,
and were subsequently verified to be negative upon re-testing.

6.     MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the
construction site at 6 Battery Road for the past two incubation periods
(i.e. 28 days), the cluster has now been closed.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

7.     In the past week (3 May to 9 May), MOH has uncovered links for
273 previously unlinked cases.

8.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

9.     425 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 2,721 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

10.     There are currently 1,097 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 22 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 19,498 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 20 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Cases 20844, 20847, 20850, 20853, 20854, 20855, 20856, 20973, 21018,
21021, 21024, 21111, 21120, 21163, 21166, 21170, 21370, 21456, 21581,
21595, 21596, 21598, 21599, 21600, 21601, 21602, 21603, 21604, 21605,
21606, 21607, 21608 and 21609.

[2] All equivocal results are sent to the National Public Health
Laboratory for re-testing. As a precautionary measure, we had
categorised Cases 18669 and 19360 as positive while pending
verification, and isolated them.
