Revised Discharge Criteria for Covid-19 Patients



REVISED DISCHARGE CRITERIA FOR COVID-19 PATIENTS


Published Date: 28 May 2020

       The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has studied and evaluated the latest
local and international clinical and scientific evidence which show that
viable virus was not found in COVID-19 patients after the second week of
illness despite the persistence of polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
detection of ribonucleic acid (RNA). This means that COVID-19 patients
are not likely to be infectious after Day 14 of illness and are not
infectious by Day 21 of illness.
2.        The Taskforce will therefore revise the discharge criteria for
COVID-19 patients in Singapore. With immediate effect, all COVID-19
patients who are assessed to be clinically well by Day 21 of onset of
illness can be discharged without the need for further PCR tests. This
revised approach will allow recovered patients who are well and no
longer infectious to return to the community in a timely manner.
SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE STRONGLY SUPPORTS TIME-BASED DISCHARGE
3.        There is consensus amongst infectious diseases experts based
on the clinical data presented locally and internationally that the risk
of secondary transmission of COVID-19 is unlikely by Day 14 of onset of
illness [1] . COVID-19 patients are usually most infectious one to two
days before the onset of symptoms and the infectivity declines
thereafter. After Day 14, while PCR tests may pick up minute fragments
of the COVID-19 virus RNA, these RNA fragments are no longer
transmissible and infective to others and the virus is no longer viable.
This means the patient is no longer infectious beyond this period.
4.        This is corroborated by local research. The recent position
statement on the period of infectivity by the National Centre for
Infectious Diseases and the Chapter of Infectious Disease Physicians,
Academy of Medicine, Singapore, noted that viable COVID-19 virus was not
found after the second week of illness despite the persistence of PCR
detection of RNA. Local and international clinical observations
therefore support the discharge of well patients after Day 14 from the
onset of illness.
5.      Internationally, various countries that adopt or recommend a
time-based discharge policy include the South Korea, United Kingdom,
United States, Estonia and Ireland. These countries have typically
discharged patients after a range of seven to 14 days from onset of
symptoms. South Korea discharges asymptomatic patients from isolation
after three weeks from date of confirmation. More recently, on 27 May
2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) has also recommended a
time-based discharge criteria. WHO recommends that patients who are
clinically well can now be discharged after 10 days from the onset of
illness, plus at least three days without respiratory symptoms or fever.
EXTRA PRECAUTION OF DISCHARGE AFTER DAY 21
6.      The majority of COVID-19 patients in Singapore have mild or no
symptoms, and the majority are admitted to a community care facility
where most recover with minimal intervention. Those with higher risk or
more serious conditions requiring close medical care are admitted to
hospitals. Patients will remain isolated in a community facility until
after 21 days.
7.       While clinical evidence has shown that patients are generally
non-infectious from Day 14 of illness, we will continue to isolate all
patients until Day 21 of onset of illness as an extra precaution. All
COVID-19 patients who are assessed to be clinically well after 21 days
from the onset of illness can be discharged from isolation without the
need for further tests, but they will be given leave to remain at home
(or place of residence like dormitories) for a further 7 days to rest
and recover. After Day 28, these recovered individuals can return to
work.
8.     This revised discharge criteria will not be applied to patients
who have a history of being immunocompromised. Such patients will still
require two negative PCR tests before discharge, as they may still
continue to shed viable virus for prolonged period because of their
impaired immunity.
9.     The Multi-Ministry Taskforce will continue to review the latest
evidence with medical experts as the situation evolves, and make
evidence-based adjustments to Singaporeâ€™s medical plan for COVID-19
patients, to ensure the wellbeing of all patients.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
28 MAY 2020

[1] In clinical practice, the onset of illness is defined as the date
when the symptoms are reported by symptomatic patients or the date of
first positive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test or seven days before
first positive serology test for asymptomatic patients.

