Regional Screening Centres Set Up to Facilitate Testing



REGIONAL SCREENING CENTRES SET UP TO FACILITATE TESTING


Published Date: 08 Jun 2020

               COVID-19 testing is a key enabler of the Governmentâ€™s
overall efforts to safely re-open after the circuit breaker. Besides
diagnostic testing, we have started to conduct active surveillance
testing on targeted groups, to help detect cases early and reduce the
risk of large COVID-19 clusters from developing. This has been enabled
by screening centres set up across the island to support the national
testing efforts.
2.             Over the past months, our national capacity to conduct
tests for COVID-19 has been ramped up steadily. As of 1 June 2020, we
have conducted over 408,000 tests, or 71,700 tests per million
population.
TESTING FOR SAFE RE-OPENING
3.             Besides diagnostic testing in the community and foreign
worker dormitories, we have started to conduct active surveillance
testing amongst targeted groups. In May 2020, we completed testing for
all staff and residents in the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Social
and Family Development residential homes for seniors, as seniors living
in residential institutions are more vulnerable to COVID-19. We also
completed testing of pre-school and early intervention staff as a
precautionary measure before pre-schools resumed their full services.
4.             Testing in the migrant worker dormitories continues, both
to contain the spread of the virus as well as to enable migrant workers
to return to work. With the gradual re-opening of more workplaces, we
have also started testing workers who are returning to work in the
construction, marine and process sectors. This is because of the
presence of a higher proportion of confirmed cases within these sectors
in the past, and the greater difficulty in maintaining strict safe
management and distancing measures at all times given the nature of
their work. Testing will also be expanded to cover workers with higher
risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as frontline workers supporting
COVID-19 operations.
5.             We have also extended testing to individuals who are
diagnosed with acute respiratory infection (ARI) at first presentation
to a doctor, starting first with groups such as seniors 65 years old and
above, healthcare workers, as well as staff and older students[1] of our
education institutions[2]. This is to allow us to identify COVID-19
cases earlier and to quickly contain any potential spread in the
community.
REGIONAL SCREENING CENTRES TO SUPPORT TESTING
6.             The Health Promotion Board (HPB) has been appointed as
the national agency to support COVID-19 testing, working closely with
our healthcare partners. HPB has been setting up Regional Screening
Centres (RSC) progressively across the island to support our screening
and testing needs. These centres are integral to the implementation of
our national testing strategy, and play a critical role in keeping
Singapore COVID-19 safe.
7.             The RSCs were deployed at temporary sites in May 2020 to
carry out the screening services for preschool staff. Starting in June,
they have been deployed to other sites, working closely with sector lead
agencies (such as the Building and Construction Authority for the
construction sector, and Economic Development Board for the marine and
process sector) to support the screening requirements for workers in the
identified sectors. Where possible, RSCs will be located in places that
are easily accessible to support the screening needs in the community.
8.             Two of these centres, at the Old Police Academy and The
Float @ Marina Bay, have commenced operations from 2 June 2020. HPB has
set up two more centres on 8 June at the Bukit Gombak sport hall and
Bishan sport hall, with another centre on the way at 2 Bedok North
Street 2 (former Sepak Takraw sport hall). There are also other swabbing
sites set up in partnership with private partners to support these
efforts, such as the testing facility at One Farrer Hotel. As testing
capacity and operations ramp up, HPB will set up more of such centres as
necessary at suitable locations across the island.
9.             The RSCs are set up with proper infection control
measures, and strict safe distancing requirements will be observed to
protect individuals and the community. The RSCs do not take in walk-in
requests for screening. Individuals who are unwell or have medical
concerns should consult their primary care doctors, and will be referred
for screening at the RSCs if necessary.
TESTING FOR SAFE TRANSITION
10.             As we build up our testing capacity, we will continually
review our testing policies, as part of our broader strategy to fight
COVID-19. While testing helps us to detect, isolate and contain possible
spread, strong infection control measures will continue to be the
mainstay of disease prevention in our community. We must continue to
practise strict safe distancing and good personal hygiene, to reduce the
risk of transmissions. Together, we can make our homes, schools,
workplaces and communities safe as we ease into the phased resumption of
our social and economic activities.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] This refers to students who are 13 years-old and above. For younger
students, doctors will assess whether a test is required, as younger
children may require different clinical considerations than older
children.

[2] This includes preschools (including early intervention centres),
primary and secondary schools (including student care centres), special
education schools, Institutes of Higher Learning, and Private Education
Institutions.
