530 More Cases Discharged; 451 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



530 MORE CASES DISCHARGED; 451 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 19 May 2020

As of 19 May 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed and
verified an additional 451 cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore. The
breakdown is as follows:

A) IMPORTED CASES: 0

There are no imported cases today.

B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1 (1 Singaporean/Permanent Resident)

The number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an average
of 6 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 3 per day in the
past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also
decreased, from an average of 2 cases per day in the week before, to an
average of 1 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

C) WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING OUTSIDE DORMITORIES): 0

The number of new cases amongst Work Permit holders residing outside
dormitories has decreased, from an average of 4 cases per day in the
week before, to an average of 1 per day in the past week.

D) WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING IN DORMITORIES): 450

We continue to pick up many more cases amongst Work Permit holders
residing in dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories,
because of extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process
to verify and test the status of all workers.

2.    Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.    Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while the rest
are pending contact tracing.

4.   MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to NCS Hub (5 Ang
Mo Kio Street 62) and CitiWall (34 Kaki Bukit Crescent) for the past two
incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the clusters have now been closed.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

5.   In the past week (12 May to 18 May), MOH has uncovered links for 11
previously unlinked cases.

6.   Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.   530 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 10,365 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

8.   There are currently 1,004 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 10 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 17,403 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 22 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
19 MAY 2020
